# Internationalizing Views

Slipstream supports the internationalization of  views by

1. Providing a UI widget toolkit that is locale sensitive.

2. Providing a locale-sensitive API for fetching strings from message bundles that have been translated for each supported language.

Translated message bundles are packaged in a plugin's *nls* directory.  Message files consist of key/value pairs, where each key uniquely identifies a message string.

```javascript
welcome_message = "Hello and Welcome to Slipstream!"
```

Messages can also contain substitution values that can be used to parametrize message strings.  For example,

```javascript
parametrized_welcome_message = "Hello {0} and Welcome to Slipstream!"
```
Values for the message parameters can then be substituted into the translated message via the Slipstream message API.

## Message file naming
Message file names follow the pattern 

*msgs_language_code[_country_code].properties*

where *language_code* is an [ISO-639](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639) language code and *country_code* is an (optional) [ISO-3166](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166) country code.  For example, the message file containing US English strings should be named: 

*msgs_en_US.properties*

Message files are always loaded from least locale specific to most locale specific.  For example, if a plugin provides message files 

1. msgs.properties
2. msgs_fr.properties
3. msgs_fr_FR.properties

the files would be loaded in that order, with strings defined in later files overriding strings defined in earlier files.  Therefore, msgs.properties is the *base* file and can provide values for strings that do not appear in the locale-specific files.

## Locale Detection
Slipstream uses the browser's locale setting to determine which message bundle to use as the source of message strings when a string is fetched via the message API.

## Accessing localized message strings
Plugins can access their localized message strings via the runtime [context](ActivityContext.md) attribute in an  [Activity](Activity.md) object.  The runtime context contains a function called *getMessage()* that can be used to retrieve localized message strings. 

msgs_en_US.properties:

```javascript
welcome_message = "Welcome to Slipstream {0}"
```

activity.js:

```Javascript
...
this.onStart = function() {
    var subs = ["Fred"];
    var message = this.context.getMessage("welcome_message", subs);
    console.log(message);
}
...
```
outputs:

```javascript
> "Welcome to Slipstream Fred"
```
Similarly, if the browser's locale is fr_FR and the plugin's *nls* directory contains this message bundle

msgs_fr_FR.properties:

```javascript
welcome_message = "Bienvenue dans le cadre Slipstream {0}"
```
the code snippet above would output:

```javascript
> "Bienvenue dans le cadre Slipstream Fred"
```

